---
layout: post
title: 'NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework'
category: essays
permalink: 'essays/nice'
---

## Table of Contents
* [The NICE Framework](#the-nice-framework)
* [Categories - Protect and Defend](#categories-protect-and-defend)
* [Speciality Areas - Protect and Defend](#speciality-areas-protect-and-defend)
  * [Cyber Defense Infrastructure Support](#cyber-defense-infrastructure-support)
  * [Cyber Defense Analyst](#cyber-defense-analyst)
  * [Vulnerability Assessment Analyst](#vulnerability-assessment-analyst)
  * [Cyber Defense Incident Responder](#cyber-defense-incident-responder)
* [Tasks & KSAs](#tasks-ksas)
  * [Tasks](#tasks)
  * [Knowledge](#knowledge)
  * [Skills](#skills)
  * [Abilities](#abilities)
* [References](#references)

## The NICE Framework
> The NICE Framework can be viewed as a non-prescriptive cybersecurity workforce dictionary. Categories provide the overarching organizational structure of the NICE Framework. There are seven Categories and all are composed of Specialty Areas and work roles. Work roles are the most detailed groupings of cybersecurity and related work which include a list of attributes required to perform that role in the form of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) and tasks performed in that role.

## Categories - Protect and Defend
> Identifies, analyzes, and mitigates threats to internal information technology (IT) systems and/or networks.

## Speciality Areas - Protect and Defend
> Each specialty area represents an area of concentrated work, or function, within cybersecurity and related work

### Cyber Defense Infrastructure Support
> Tests, implements, deploys, maintains, reviews, and administers the infrastructure hardware and software that are required to effectively manage the computer network defense service provider network and resources. Monitors network to actively remediate unauthorized activities.

### Cyber Defense Analyst
> Uses data collected from a variety of cyber defense tools (e.g., IDS alerts, firewalls, network traffic logs) to analyze events that occur within their environments for the purposes of mitigating threats.

### Vulnerability Assessment Analyst
> Performs assessments of systems and networks within the NE or enclave and identifies where those systems/networks deviate from acceptable configurations, enclave policy, or local policy. Measures effectiveness of defense-in-depth architecture against known vulnerabilities.

### Cyber Defense Incident Responder
> Investigates, analyzes, and responds to cyber incidents within the network environment or enclave.

## Tasks & KSAs
### Tasks
Fulfills a work role.

### Knowledge
Information applied to the performance of a function. 

### Skills
Observable performance in applying tools, frameworks, processes, and controls. 

### Abilities
Behavior that results in a product.

### References
* [NIST SP 800-181, "National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework"](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-181.pdf)
